slides: https://projects.100xdevs.com/tracks/web3-orientation/Web3-Cohort---Orientation-1

Why blockchains?
Inflating currencies
Government has been printing currencies left right and center. This leads to increasing inflation, price of everything goes up.
Holding on to cash is a losers bet in the long run. Holding on to any asset (Gold, Stock, real estate) is better compared to currencies like INR,USD.

2008 financial crisis
Fractional reserve Banking
Banks dont have your money. They lend out most of it.
If there is a bank run (everyone goes to the bank to withdraw their money), banks wont be able to pay everyone
Silicon valley collapsed in 2022. Most YC companies had their funds in SVB. They were bailed out, but if not, you would’ve seen a lot of startups die.

Bailouts
The 2008 Financial crisis was triggered by a financial instrument called mortgage-backed securities. 
Even though the banks at Wall Street were at fault, the government ended up bailing them out using Taxpayer money.
Currencies are not backed by assets anymore

How to create a new currency?
Right now, currencies can only be issued by central governments. You can’t create your own Chetan coin and ask users to use it.
Even if I do issue a Chetan coin , no one would use it, and for good reasons - 
I can print any number of Chetan coins, making myself richer
I become the central mint and verification athority for the coin. 
No one would (or should) trust me

Intro to hashing
Hashing is a process that transforms input data (of any size) into a fixed-size string of characters.
 
Hash functions have several important properties:
Deterministic: The same input will always produce the same output.
Fast computation: The hash value can be quickly computed for any given data.
Pre-image resistance: It should be computationally infeasible to reverse the hash function (i.e., find the original input given its hash output).
Small changes in input produce large changes in output: Even a tiny change in the input should drastically change the hash output.
Collision resistance: It should be computationally infeasible to find two different inputs that produce the same hash output.

example:
SHA-256
Lets try out a famous hash function, SHA-256 here - https://emn178.github.io/online-tools/sha256.html

A nonce, or "number used once", is a random number used in blockchain technology to add uniqueness and randomness to transactions and blocks

Play with this:
https://andersbrownworth.com/blockchain/hash

Notes link:
https://app.100xdevs.com/courses/13/408/425